Previously on
Star Trek: Strange New Worlds...
La'An.
-Hey, Chief.
-Wait, you two know each other?
LA'AN:
She helped me find
my way back home.
She's the reason
I joined Starfleet.
Spock, will you marry me?
-PIKE: We're going back out.
-SPOCK: I will meet you
on board, Captain.
T'Pring will understand.
-I am sorry.
-I won't chase you
across the galaxy
just to get married.
This is your idea
of a practical joke.
-It's tradition.
-Hazing the newbie?
Consider it your first complete
square in Enterprisebingo.
SPOCK:
Captain, your plan requires
flying theEnterprise
into one of the most turbulent
phenomenons in space.
All hands,
make ready for impact.
-Hit it.
-[low creaking]
♪
[brassy ringing]
Spock.
Your ears.
You're human.
T'Pring.
I will not marry a human.
I choose kal-if-fee.
That is ritual combat.
Who am I supposed to fight?
You will fight... him.
But fighting myself is...
...illogical.
[grunts]
[panting]
What would you know of logic?
You are a human.
Ruled by emotion.
No, I'm not human.
I'm not.
[gasps]
[grunts softly]
SPOCK:
Science officer's log,
stardate 2341.4.
After our harrowing
encounter with the Gorn,
Enterprise has returned
to Starbase 1,
one of the oldest,
most venerated space stations
in the Federation,
newly repaired
after the Klingon War.
Here, the crew
will be adjourning
for some much-needed rest
and relaxation.
While I have agreed
to assist the captain
with a diplomatic matter,
I plan to spend most of my time
here with my fiancée T'Pring,
who has arranged to join me
since our last visit
was cut short by...
[door chimes]
Come.
Spock, parted from me
and never parted,
never and always
touching and touched.
We meet at the appointed place.
T'Pring, parted from me
and never parted,
never and always
touching and touched.
I await you.
This room they have given us
seems very...
...human.
It is hard to imagine
that a Vulcan has slept in here.
These are my quarters.
And... I am redecorating.
It is a work in progress.
Then I withdraw my criticism...
...until your decorations
are complete.
Thank you for helping
arrange accommodations
for my colleague K'Tyll.
I trust she has
found them adequate?
You will have to explain the
necessity of her presence here.
Do you understand my
professional responsibilities?
You undertake
to rehabilitate those
who have committed crimes
by showing them the true path
-of Vulcan logic.
-Indeed.
I have a way with dangerous
criminals, it would seem.
One such criminal, Barjan T'or,
has been spotted
in the vicinity.
Was he not responsible
for the uprising on Kepler-22b?
He was.
The authorities on Vulcan
have sought him for some time.
You must have
important work duties
to perform here.
K'Tyll can handle Barjan.
That is why she has
accompanied me.
Now I understand.
I have not forgotten that,
during our last time together,
it was your duty
that interrupted us.
We must prioritize
our relationship.
Of course.
I still have some
diplomatic responsibilities
I must dispense with
before we...
I expected no different.
-You are disappointed.
-I am realistic.
I will be free in time for us
to dine together tonight.
I shall look forward to it.
The R'ongovian Protectorate
controls a small
but vitally important piece
of territory in between
Klingon and Romulan space.
It's the fastest route to the
other side of the Beta Quadrant,
but without safe passage,
we keep losing ships.
Why haven't we been able to
make inroads with them before?
They've been unusually private
up until now.
That all changed after
initial diplomatic discussions
were undertaken
by the Tellarites.
Ah. And how did those go, sir?
Hmm.
Your beard is as ridiculous
as your proposals.
Every word you speak
is an insult to R'ongovia.
-I can see why they...
-PIKE: Wow.
And here I thought
the Tellarites were rude.
Maybe Ambassador Q'Ral
said the wrong thing.
We don't know, and we can't
wait long to find out.
We've just learned
the R'ongovians are now
in negotiation
with the Klingons,
with the Romulans
not far behind.
Time isn't on our side.
We need to strike a deal
with them first.
Well, I'm certain
we can handle the situation
with considerably more delicacy
and grace
than the Tellarites, Bob.
Good, 'cause we're meeting
them tomorrow, first thing.
Who's leading the negotiation
on their side?
That's Vasso L'Gaelia,
captain of their flagship.
Docked right over there.
Is that an old solar
sailship, sir?
Yeah. They bring her out
for ceremonial occasions.
When they sign a treaty,
apparently they fly the flag
of their new allies
as a tribute.
LA'AN [over comm]:
Noonien-Singh to the captain.
I'm afraid we have
a bit of a situation.
-What's going on?
-I have the R'ongovian
delegation here
and they're quite insistent
on seeing you right now.
What are they doing here?
No idea.
PIKE:
Well, there's one way
to find out.
Lieutenant Noonien-Singh,
show them in.
What is this?
We have been
waiting on our ship,
while you are here discussing
our upcoming negotiations?
You must be Captain Vasso.
And you are Pike?
Actually,
I'm Admiral Robert April.
If I may...
I speak to Captain Pike only.
Well, I'm Captain Pike.
Nice to meet you.
Well, if I'd known
you were coming early,
I could have cooked you up
an Earth specialty.
[laughs]
Captain Pike.
The pleasure is mine.
I am Vasso.
This is my first officer Brax.
Well, very nice
to meet you both.
This is Lieutenant Spock
and Cadet Uhura,
from the Enterprise.
And you've already
met Lieutenant Noonien-Singh.
Sir, I should go
do the security things.
Yes, thank you, La'An.
We're good.
You are Vulcan?
Famous for your logic, yes?
-Indeed.
-Then, your voice
is also a part
of the Federation?
All members of the Federation
have a voice in its governance.
That sounds... confusing.
[chuckles]
Yeah, it can be.
With so many voices
in your Federation,
how do you decide
which one is in control?
We vote.
We gain our power
from all our membership
so we try to listen
to each other.
All of us.
We, too, listen.
Empathy is a hallmark
of our people.
Few understand that.
We shall sit and talk.
Uh, oh... Okay.
I guess, uh...
let's begin.
Doctor? Are you here?
Shore leave's a-wasting.
We got to go.
-Is it time already?
-Are you serious?
Sorry.
I've been collecting data
to share with Dr. Berroa.
Is that his you-know-what?
No. Expert in noninvasive
surgical techniques.
Cutting-edge stuff.
Except, uh, without the cutting.
-Oh...
-[chuckles]
You know, she's come all the way
from the other side
of the quadrant.
You don't want to be late
to meet her.
-Right. Two minutes.
-How about you?
Excited to see Lieutenant Dever?
Sure.
So, how are we gonna
play it this time?
You want me to keep
the communicator on
or do we need a hand signal?
No need.
This is what I appreciate
about Dever.
He and I are on the same page.
The "casual, no attachments,
this is just for fun,
zero commitments" page.
That's more like
a book than a page.
And you said the same thing
about that gal on Argelius II.
That was a misunderstanding.
It was one time.
[chuckles]:
One very entertaining time.
How is being chased
by live phaser fire fun?
Oh, good, I was worried
you might show up
in a silly hat.
[clears throat]
Yeah, I was gonna ask.
It's for fly-fishing.
I hear the biospheres
have everything.
ORTEGAS:
You know what?
I'm warming to it.
LA'AN:
Lieutenant Ortegas, Dr. M'Benga
and Nurse Chapel,
you are officially checked out.
Enjoy your shore leave.
You don't have to do this
in person, you know.
Only way to make sure
it's done right.
Nice hat, by the way.
Fine. I'll take it off.
What do you two
have planned for shore leave?
ORTEGAS:
Are you kidding?
They don't shore leave.
They shore stay.
M'BENGA:
Oh, right.
The nickname.
[clears throat]
I don't know what I'm saying.
I should probably go.
Chief Kyle?
What nickname?
M'BENGA:
I can't remember. It's, uh...
"Where fun goes to die."
It's stupid.
The yeomen don't know
what they're talking about.
If they did,
they wouldn't be yeomen.
Energize.
[scoffs]
Have you heard this, Chief?
No, no, of course not. Nope, no.
T'Pring.
I am sorry. The negotiations
commenced unexpectedly.
I do not doubt
your duty's importance.
Yet we agreed
this time would be for us.
I chose not to work
even while I, too,
had important work to do.
A shared acceptance
of mutual sacrifice
is crucial
to a successful relationship.
Yes. That is indisputable.
I am concerned
that your time in Starfleet
may be causing you to behave
in a manner so... human,
we may ultimately
find ourselves incompatible.
Perhaps you should go prepare
for your important work.
If you will excuse me.
[door whooshes open]
PIKE:
Space.
The final frontier.
These are the voyages
of the starshipEnterprise.
Its five-year mission:
to explore strange new worlds...
...to seek out new life
and new civilizations,
to boldly go
where no one has gone before.
♪
You look hot. Like, fire hot.
-Thank you.
-What about me?
Aren't I fire? We're two fires.
[laughs]:
Two fires. Yeah.
Hey, we don't have
to order food, you know?
-We could just get out of here.
-Yeah, but I'm hungry.
-And they have
Slanikian oysters.
-Aha.
They're always in season.
All I'm saying is that instead
of talking,
we could be off having fun.
Oh, I thought we might
talk about us.
Us?
Look, uh, I'm having fun
and all.
I'm just wondering
where it's going.
[fading]:
I had this crazy idea.
[clears throat]
What if you transferred
to the Skylark?
-Or I applied for transfer
to Enterprise...
-Okay, wow.
Um, sorry, I really need to go
and check on my friend.
-What?
-I'll call you later, okay?
Why do you let it bother you?
-Hmm?
-"Where fun goes to die"?
It didn't bother me.
I just hadn't heard it before.
Have you?
No. And I don't care.
I don't, either.
Just... not knowing
makes me feel out of touch.
As a senior officer, I don't get
to be part of the crew anymore.
Oh, no, that's not because
you're a senior officer.
It's because you terrify people.
-That's a compliment.
-Thanks?
I mean, what's wrong
with liking work?
And shore leave, I mean,
the ship clears out,
the halls are empty, no lines
for the matter synthesizers.
It's just you and the gentle
thrum of the warp core.
It's like...
it's like Christmas.
I was looking forward
to redoing the duty rosters.
I was planning on checking
the phaser power supplies
-in the armory, actually.
-[computer chimes]
COMPUTER:
Attention,
Lieutenant Noonien-Singh,
security breach at Airlock Four.
-Unauthorized access
in progress.
-Copy.
-Computer, who's on
rotation for backup?
-Belay that.
I'm your backup.
People are idiots. You're fun.
[alarm sounding]
-Don't shoot.
-Uh, we're crew.
You know, Spock, you're clearly
an extraordinarily
intelligent person.
Thank you.
But you're also an idiot.
I feel I should have
seen that coming.
Please, elucidate.
You told her you were
gonna be home for dinner
and then you weren't.
I found myself
in an impossible circumstance
where I was unable to reconcile
my many duties...
That is not a human gesture
I am familiar with.
It's designed
to break old habits.
You're supposed to put her
ahead of your duties.
That's what being
in a relationship is,
it's mutual sacrifice.
Pretty much why I avoid them.
I am concerned
that T'Pring thinks
I am an incompatible mate
because I'm half-human.
Okay.
I had a terrible dream
last night
that I had to fight
my human side.
Vulcans don't do subtle, do you?
I was raised on Vulcan,
among Vulcans.
My human family connection was
frequently used to isolate me.
Teenage Spock had
a pretty lousy time of it, huh?
I was bonded
to my pet sehlatI-Chaya.
I had a malamute named Milo
who may or may not have bitten
this girl who called me stupid.
Sharp teeth.
I hope the girl did not
repeat the mistake again.
Look, uh, maybe T'Pring
just feels misunderstood.
If the human thing
is big in her head,
you just have to make her see
that you get her as a Vulcan.
Thank you for your advice.
If I can ever return the favor,
please do not hesitate to ask.
What are friends for?
[whispers]:
What are friends for...
That was a rhetorical, Spock.
Oh, I know.
Humans are almost as easy
to tease as Vulcans.
T'PRING:
Seriously?
A Vulcan soul-sharing?
I have failed to see
your point of view.
This will change that.
I will hear
your innermost thoughts.
And you mine.
In doing so,
you will know my soul,
and I will know yours.
We can truly understand
each other.
We will see through
each other's eyes.
Will you consent?
I will.
[bells ringing]
[speaking Vulcan]
-Spock?
-T'pring?
Something is wrong.
Things have not returned
to as they should be.
The effects of the ritual
have not dissipated.
We have apparently
switched bodies.
This was not meant to happen.
How do we switch back?
I do not know.
♪
-[door chimes]
-Come.
Bob. Come here to celebrate?
Or not.
Is something wrong?
Got bad news, Chris.
The R'ongovians aren't happy.
They want to cancel
all future meetings.
What? Why?
I don't know.
Uh, they just said
that a connection wasn't made.
Whatever that means.
I'm honestly baffled.
You saw them.
I mean, after fighting
with the Tellarites,
I thought we'd somehow
managed to win them over.
Right? I mean, if that was
a bad diplomatic meeting,
I don't know what
a good one would look like.
We have to get back into a room.
Here's the thing, Chris.
We were able to talk them
into coming back to the table,
only, they don't want
to talk to you anymore.
Okay.
Who do they want to talk to?
[both humming]
-Anything?
-No.
But I have thought of another
adjustment we could try.
Spock, we have been
at these rituals for hours,
and none of them are working.
We may have to seek
some help with this.
There is one more chant
I'd like to try.
We might need a gong.
-I think I have one in my...
-[door chimes]
What should we do?
You must answer it.
These are my quarters.
Anyone who comes here will
expect me to answer the door.
-I know how a door works.
-[door chimes]
If they go away,
that may give us enough time
to fix this situation.
Logic suggests the easiest way
to get them to go away
is for you to answer
while pretending to be me.
Spock, I do not like hijinks.
In that we are in agreement,
but it appears that hijinks
are the most
logical course of action.
[door chimes]
Enter.
Mr. Spock.
I apologize. I know
I promised I'd leave you alone.
Hi, T'Pring. I really
don't mean to interrupt.
It is of no consequence,
Captain.
Uh, Chris.
If there is an emergency,
then of course
you must speak with... Spock.
Who is right there.
Yeah, I-I can see that.
Although we are clearly
in the middle of something.
Look, I really don't mean
to come between
the two of you here,
with whatever's going on.
-Nothing is going on.
-We're meditating.
Perhaps it's best if you
leave us to our sacred things.
That's not necessary... Chris.
Please.
Tell us what you need.
We have a situation
with the R'ongovians.
They refuse to talk
to anybody but you.
-What?
-SPOCK: But I can't...
I mean, he can't talk to them.
I really can't
talk to them, Chris.
I'm engaged.
I don't think
you're getting it, Spock.
They won't talk to anyone else.
You're pretty much
all that stands between us
and the R'ongovians allying with
the Klingons or the Romulans.
Hell, maybe both.
We should tell him.
-It is the only logical path.
-Agreed.
Captain, we have undertaken
a ritual to share our katras.
It has had unforeseen
consequences.
T'PRING:
We have switched bodies.
And we seem unable
to switch back.
[chuckles]
Get out of town.
We are not in a town.
You guys did a body swap?
Like, you-- like, your minds
are in each other's...
SPOCK:
That is correct.
I am Spock.
And I am T'Pring.
Now that you know,
you can likely tell
the very clear differences
in our mannerisms.
Yeah, totally.
Look, I don't know
what to do about this,
but the R'ongovians won't
meet with anybody but Spock.
Or somebody who looks like him.
I do not want to put
T'Pring through that.
-It takes a lot
of experience to...
-I will do it.
T'Pring, are you quite certain?
We have undergone
this ritual in order
to better understand
each other, correct?
-Yes, but that...
-Then, is this not
an opportunity
for us to do that?
I will accompany Chris.
You remain here and find a way
to reverse the ritual.
Captain? Tell me
what I need to do.
[door whooshes shut]
-Bad cop!
-Damn!
Got to be quicker, Chief.
Do you realize what kind
of trouble you're in, Ensign?
Um, no?
I'd start talking,
or the next time you do
will be at your court-martial.
I was an ensign once, too.
I understand being nervous.
I just don't want
to get in any trouble.
You won't.
Do you want some coffee?
[Christina cries]
It was Enterprisebingo.
We were doing Enterprise...
Bingo. I heard you.
[Zier laughs]
That's so interesting.
That's not even the best part.
We were on the last square,
so we were trying
to Sign the Scorch.
UNA:
Ensigns Zier and Christina,
we've heard your explanations.
Enterprisebingo.
Signing the Scorch.
UNA:
We can't overlook the fact
that both of you acted
in a very irresponsible manner.
-Very.
-Your shore leave is revoked.
You'll spend the next two days
assigned to Chief Kyle...
-No, not Chief Kyle.
-He's so mean.
...who will have
you micro-cleaning
the transporter pads.
Dismissed.
[clears throat]
What the hell
is Enterprisebingo?
Not a clue.
[device ringing]
Greetings, K'Tyll.
T'Pring is not...
That is, I am not...
Never mind.
Forgive my intrusion, T'Pring.
I know you asked
that I not disturb you,
but there has been a problem
with the rendezvous with Barjan.
-What type of a problem?
-He has agreed
to immediate surrender,
but he has refused
to meet with me.
He will only speak to you.
K'Tyll, I am not feeling...
myself.
I'm afraid we need you.
No other Vulcan
could pull this off.
I am sure that I am
great at this,
but circumstances
are complicated
between Spock and myself
at the moment.
I know how important
this time is for you two,
so I will not ask you
to make that sacrifice.
I will merely reiterate
our mission,
as you have always explained it.
If not for us,
who else will help them back
to the path of logic?
Only you can do this, T'Pring.
So, Enterprisebingo is a game?
Apparently
one played exclusively
by the ensign class and lower.
In order to achieve "bingo,"
a crew member must perform the
series of tasks on this list.
This is quite comprehensive.
Where'd you get this?
Confiscated it
from Ensign Zier's quarters
during routine inspection.
Don't give me that look.
I was just doing my job.
Sure you were.
Well, if this is
what passes for fun,
I'm happy to be fun's funeral.
Where-where fun goes to die.
-Not fun's funeral.
-Whatever.
I'll never understand it.
I guess we could.
-What?
-Understand it.
I mean, if we wanted to,
you know,
get a better understanding
of the crew.
[gum pops]
-Okay, flavor's gone.
-UNA: Roger that.
Energize.
And? Flavor check.
Spearmint again. Wow.
Yes.
[melody plays]
One, two, three.
-Bridge!
-Engineering!
COMPUTER:
Destination Engineering.
-[whoops]
-[groans] Okay, fine.
Damn it. Okay.
Best two out of three. Go.
♪
Lowest setting.
Ready?
Aim.
Wait.
Ow.
That really stings.
Uh...
We having fun yet?
ORTEGAS: So, did you tell Dever
how you really feel?
CHAPEL:
No.
I was worried
he'd try to get serious again.
ORTEGAS:
What did he do?
CHAPEL: He tried to read me
some of his poetry.
Oh, sweet heaven.
[chuckles]
-Was it any good?
-Oddly, not terrible.
Also not the point.
It just seemed time
to set some boundaries.
Smart.
Is that Spock's girlfriend?
Hard to tell,
but does she look pissed?
Oh, I should tell you something.
She's heading over here.
Tell me what?
Oh, um, I might have given Spock
some relationship advice.
Are you serious?
Never get in the middle of
a Vulcan relationship.
They will hit you
with a lirpa.
Trust me.
Have you ever fought
with a lirpa?
I have actual scars.
Nurse Chapel, may we talk?
Alone?
Good luck, you two.
Uh... hi.
I'm in need of your help.
[laughs]
Oh, I'm sorry.
I just seriously did not think
you would take my advice
this far.
It was not intentional.
It must be so weird,
being inside
your fiancée's body.
I had not taken the time
to consider it.
Really?
It is... different.
-Uh-huh.
-But, as it is my fault,
I am afraid that I am now
endangering T'Pring's career,
as she works to save mine.
There must be
a medical solution.
[sighs] Okay. Yeah.
I mean, sure, but a-a medical
solution is gonna take time.
Meanwhile,
you clearly have
a relationship opportunity.
Are you suggesting that
I should attempt to do her job?
She's doing yours.
Why don't you help her out?
Use some of that good old Vulcan
logic she prizes so much.
This is coming
dangerously close to hijinks.
Hey. Who doesn't love hijinks?
I'm not feeling it.
I mean, I felt it
when you shot me with a phaser.
But no, not feeling it, either.
Maybe it's because I didn't have
a childhood like everyone else
that I don't idealize
childish behavior.
So, are we done
with this pointless exercise?
-No.
-No?
-We're finishing the list.
-Look, I know it was my idea,
but, I mean, how much more
insight into the crew
do we actually need?
Enterprisebingo.
What's the point?
A way to blow off steam?
To do something risky
just for the thrill of it.
To break the rules.
Only we make the rules.
Bingo.
Exactly.
Which means we have to find
another way to break them.
T'PRING:
Query.
Is the R'ongovian Protectorate
aware of
the Klingon history of
cultural domination?
VASSO:
Response.
Merely pointing out the risks
of an alliance with the Klingons
does not make an adequate
argument for the Federation.
Understandably,
I'm trying to prepare you
for the logical fallout
should these negotiations fail.
Which, in essence, is a threat.
Is it just me
or do the R'ongovians suddenly
seem awfully Vulcan-y?
Shh. We're supposed
to be observers only.
What is the logic of
an alliance with a culture
whose central purpose
is the subjugation
of other cultures to its own?
What is the logic of
an alliance with a Federation
whose interdependence
merely dilutes the cultures
that comprise it?
-[sighs]
-Spock can handle it.
As a Vulcan,
I sympathize with your fears--
that you will lose your culture
to homogenization
in a multilateral alliance
like ours.
There are times I wish
I could return to Vulcan
to focus on my culture,
instead of traveling the galaxy
focusing on Starfleet.
VASSO:
I am confused.
Are you saying that
you do not value the Federation?
[whispers]: Chris. Chris.
What are you doing?
PIKE:
My apologies, Captain,
if I may interject?
BRAX:
You may not.
You are here as a courtesy.
I am not speaking up
on behalf of the Federation.
Rather, I am speaking up
on behalf of Lieutenant Spock.
That is...
What?
We will allow it.
PIKE:
Thank you.
If I may, Spock.
It is a noble sacrifice
you've made,
to spend so much time away
from your own culture.
-It is?
-PIKE: Yes, it is.
Your commitment
to the Federation
and to understanding
both the values and plights
of cultures wildly different,
sometimes at
great personal cost,
your constant striving
for intellectual excellence
and your commitment to the
spirit of duty is inspirational.
To answer the question,
"Why the Federation?"
one need only look
across the table, Captain Vasso.
You, Mr. Spock,
are simply everything
that is great about Starfleet.
I...
Thank you, Captain.
I am so sorry,
I didn't mean to interrupt.
I hope I haven't insulted you
with my presence.
[whispers]:
I should never have put you
in this position.
Let's get you out of here.
Wait.
Your actions have impressed us,
Captain,
defending your crewman
like that.
We will conclude this session
but will offer you
the opportunity
of summation before we leave.
♪
[door whooshes open]
[door whooshes shut]
[birds chirping]
[fishing pole whirring]
♪
CHAPEL:
You sure you want me there?
SPOCK:
If I talk to him alone,
he is likely to realize
that something is amiss.
If I bring a human ally
to surrender negotiations,
it might give me a chance.
[indistinct chatter]
-MALE: I believe
it is your move.
-Barjan.
This is my colleague,
Nurse Christine Chapel.
I was clear that I would only
speak to you alone, T'Pring.
Given that
you are v'tosh ka'tur,
I did not think that you would
object to a human joining us.
Since when does
El-Keshtanktil employ humans
in service of logic?
-Well...
-I-I'm here to, uh, show you
that she's not all about logic.
You know, to make you feel
more comfortable.
I always found you curious
among Vulcans, T'Pring,
for your tolerance of
these creatures.
My sympathy for those
without logic is why I am here.
Given your position,
I would think you would be
more open-minded.
It is one thing to see
strength in emotion.
It's another thing entirely
to marry a half-human.
It is well known you are
betrothed to the son of Sarek.
What of it?
You defend Vulcan ideals
with one hand,
-insult them with the other.
-Hey.
You know what?
I work with Spock.
He's twice the Vulcan you are.
A human's assessment
is hardly the basis for insult.
As fascinating as your opinions
about humans are...
...logic dictates that I ask
if there are any circumstances
under which you would accept
our offer of rehabilitation?
At this point, no.
See, that's a tell.
You're here,
ergo, you want something.
Indeed. So what is it?
Humans evolved from apes,
did they not?
You've kept many
of their charming qualities,
it would seem.
I would caution you
to stop insulting my companion.
Would you lose the opportunity
to bring me in over mere words?
-Indeed, I would.
-That doesn't seem very logical.
Says a Vulcan
who has rejected logic.
To tell you the truth,
I came here today
with every intention
of considering rehabilitation.
But the company you keep
changed my mind.
-You listen here, you...
-[grunts]
[others murmuring]
Perhaps we should keep
the details of how exactly
we captured Barjan between us.
My response was a tad...
too human.
I'd say just the right amount.
In all my time
studying Vulcan medicine,
I never got to deal
with a katric transfer.
They are exceedingly rare.
Glucose levels steady.
Cortical patterns holding.
And what is this noxious paste
you are applying to our skulls?
Ground Nivallan sea urchin.
It's nutrient-rich,
water-resistant
and a pretty good match
for Vulcan skin,
electromagnetically-speaking.
He's been dying
to use this stuff
ever since he picked it up.
Trust me, this will become
Federation-standard.
Eventually.
And now that you've covered
our heads in sea urchin paste?
Cortical stimulation will mimic
the original brain patterns
of your host body,
making it uncomfortable
for any visitors in there.
We zap you, you switch back.
Theoretically.
T'PRING:
Theoretically?
Katras bridge the gap between
medicine and...
something else.
Magic?
The mind.
So it's not cut-and-dry.
Emotion plays a part.
I think that's
what happened here.
They're gonna nerve pinch us
for this, aren't they?
[chuckles] Yes, probably.
[screaming]
Nurse Chapel.
You know you can
call me Christine.
Christine.
I want to thank you again
for your help.
Hey, no big deal.
Perhaps not.
But for me
the deal was very big.
Very big, indeed.
Just try to be honest
with what you can and can't
offer from now on.
You needn't worry.
Vulcans cannot lie.
At least, not in the way
that humans can.
I mean honest with yourself.
[door whooshes open]
I admit I have been afraid
that I was not
Vulcan enough for you.
That...
you saw me as human,
more concerned about
my duty to Starfleet
than to my culture
or my betrothed.
My feelings about Vulcan
are not easy.
On our world, I was forced
to prove my Vulcan-ness.
Any deviation was seen
as proof I did not belong.
In Starfleet,
I am accepted for who I am.
Half-Vulcan, half-human.
I am...
...quite simply, Spock.
I know how much you value duty.
And I feared that you saw
our relationship as just that:
a duty,
rather than something more.
We must both want to be here.
I do.
As do I.
[speaks Vulcan]
Do you know what you're
gonna say to them, sir?
I certainly hope so.
Come on, Bob.
Where's the drama in that?
[door whooshes open]
[door whooshes shut]
Well, Captain.
Tell us.
Why should we ally
with your Federation?
-Easy. You shouldn't.
-Chris.
Why would you want to turn
our enemies into your enemies?
We're just a few years
clear of the Klingon War.
The Romulans are out there
biding their time.
Who knows what species
we'll piss off next?
And it's not like
we've coming to you
with any great respect
for your culture.
We barely know
anything about it.
Now, it's pretty clear
we're only interested in you
for your territory.
And what would you get
in return?
The hypothetical benefit
of new trade markets?
Scientific advancement?
Our promise of support
in the event of a crisis
which will probably
only come about
because you've thrown your lot
in with us?
No.
The Federation
has lots to offer, sure,
but it always exacts a price.
You have good reason to suspect
that price is too high
for you to pay.
Thank you.
[door whooshes open]
[door whooshes shut]
-Chris, what the hell was that?
-Playing a hunch.
You're risking an alliance
that could be the key
to the Federation's
future security on a hunch?
-It's a good hunch.
-Chris.
The R'ongovians were
rude to the Tellarites,
reasonable with us
and deeply logical
when talking to a Vulcan.
So, you're saying they copy
anyone they come
into contact with?
Yeah, that's what I thought
at first.
And then it occurred to me,
what if this was
a diplomatic technique?
They responded positively
when I took Spock's side,
even though it was in direct
violation of what they'd asked.
Maybe they're just
looking for somebody
to take their point of view.
Radical empathy.
Maybe what they
value the most in others
is the capacity
to see things their way.
UHURA:
They're flying our flag.
Looks like we have a new ally.
Hell of a job, Chris.
One thing's for sure,
no one's signed the scorch
like this before.
And we're 100% sure
the force field will hold?
99%, at least.
Well, we did it.
Broke the rules.
I mean, there has to be
a rule against this, right?
Has to be.
Is that the scorch?
[sighs]
The oldest unreplaced piece
of the Enterprise'shull.
It's supposed to be good luck
to sign it.
Una.
[both gasp]
It's...
Yeah. It is.
[laughing]
You know, I enjoyed
being Mr. Spock for a day.
In the spirit of total honesty,
I should probably tell you
that I punched Barjan.
Having met him, that is logical.
["I'm Looking"
by Kings & Queens playing]
♪ I've been looking for love♪
♪ In all the wrong places♪
♪ Looking for love♪
♪ On all the wrong faces♪
♪ And I got to...♪
ORTEGAS:
How'd things end with Dever?
I told him how boring he was.
Maybe try that next time
you're in a relationship.
Try what?
Being honest.
Nah, that means the relationship
might get serious.
So?
It would have to be
the right guy.
I, uh, I...
What?
Nothing. No.
Mm-mmm.
♪ They blow away♪
♪ Never to say♪
♪ Never♪
♪ Never to tell them again♪
♪ I've been looking for love♪
♪ In all the wrong places♪
♪ On all the wrong faces♪
♪ And I know, I know♪
♪ That I keep on searching♪
♪ 'Cause this ain't love♪
♪ That I found with you♪
♪ Sometimes I feel like I♪
♪ Got all the riches, baby.♪
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org